Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLotss podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy, something I've thought for a long
time. I think you might feel the same
way. I'm glad we're not like politics
reporters and journalists, you know.
[laughter]
>> Absolutely. I cannot imagine what that
job is. I sometimes look at some of the
stuff that our colleagues in the uh
political media have to report on and
like look like a lot of it does touch
what we do and there obviously like
there's no way to avoid it all together
and obviously some of the stuff has big
implications but by and large you know
getting to look at the numbers on a
chart or learning how you know debt
structures work or learning how
cardboard boxes work is just much more
is very satisfying to me relative to
>> you prefer the lines over the lines
coming from the mouths the politicians
lines over lines.
>> That's a good one.
>> Thank you.
>> But it's going to it's going to fall
apart, I think, because I think this AI
story is such high stakes and there's so
many different policy questions, etc.,
whether it's related to electricity
prices or the possibility for labor
displacement. I think there's basically
no way at this point that 2028, maybe
even 2026, AI somehow is going to be a
big political story in a way that it was
not really in 2024. Well, I think you're
already seeing it in 2025, right? So, we
had Sarah Frier came out and said she
was talking about maybe getting a
government back stop for AI capex
spending.
>> This is the open AI CFO.
>> Yes. And of course, she rolled it back a
little bit, but it got really but not
really. And it got everyone talking
about, you know, what is the
government's involvement or obligations
here? Uh we know that JD Vance of course
has been supported by Peter Teal who has
very strong and possibly idiosyncratic
opinions when it comes to AI. And of
course there's the labor market aspect.
There's also electricity prices.
Inflation is still a big political
challenge for the administration and
having all these data centers consume
energy is pushing prices up. And so I
expect you'll hear a lot about AI.
>> I don't think you know we're recording
this November 13. I don't like we're
probably not currently in a recession
though the economy is not booming but
who knows exactly but you know if you
imagine a recession is going on and here
is this technology where many of its
biggest backers talk about the ability
to replace a lot of labor and you know
there's some debate but and there's this
talk about placing greater strain on
electricity and as you mentioned there's
the possibility that oh maybe the
government should back I mean this is a
this is a powder keg
>> absolutely yeah
>> all right we have to learn more though
about the different factions, how it's
going to play out politically. Will AI
have any friends in Washington DC
whatsoever, how the different candidates
are positioning themselves visa vas. So
I wanted to talk to one of the most
plugged in guys I know in DC. Someone
I've talked to for a very long time
who's been talking about the politics of
AI on his own show for a long time.
Literally the perfect guest. We're going
to be speaking with Sager and Jetty. He
is the co-host of Breaking Points. uh
massive popular podcast, knows a lot
more about all the political dimensions
than we do. So, Sager, thank you so much
for uh coming on OddLots.
>> Thank you for having me, guys. Longtime
listener and congratulations on your 10
year anniversary.
>> Thank you so much. You've been doing
these segments on AI and they're blowing
up on YouTube, huh?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, purely analytics
wise, I have a little bit of a test here
for how the people are feeling. And I
think you summed it up actually really
well, Joe. is in a time of economic
procarity, a very low consumer
sentiment, when Daario and Elon and Sam
Alman just routinely go on podcasts in
2025, right? And they're just like,
"Yeah, we are going to replace you. You
don't have to work anymore." It's
basically the embodiment of that World
Economic Forum meme about you will own
nothing and be happy. And so, I mean, I
don't think that they really understand
the implications that a lot of us are
actually taking their words very
seriously. And I'm increasingly tapped
into both not only the data center
backlash, which is real by the way, heat
mapap just did a fantastic piece about
the data center backlash, how it's
swallowing American politics. Georgia's
power races very recently were massively
influenced by AI and data centers
specifically. And I'm watching this like
fascinating horseshoe is really not the
right word because horseshoe implies,
you know, far right and far left. I sent
you a tweet earlier today, Joe, which
kind of brings it together. And it was
like if Tim Miller of the Bull work and
Ryan Grim, co-host of mine, Farlefty,
and then Matt Walsh are all agreeing on
attacking AI with John Favro of Pod Save
America coming in. We're not really
horseshoe, are we? Like we're the entire
spectrum of American politics, all
agreeing to stand in opposition, I
think, to what fundamentally is about an
issue where we do not feel that we are
in control of this technology. We are
not sold yet on the benefits. And you
guys talked about that recently in one
of your latest episodes about how AI is
not even going to make you rich, which
is was also one of the promises. That's
kind of behind the entire pitch.
>> All right. So AI truly a bipartisan
issue or bipartisan gripe. But at the
same time, we hear a lot of politicians
talk about the tech competition with
China in particular, right? And we have
an episode that came out recently where
we talk about the existentialism around
AI. this idea that you have to win
otherwise you're basically gonna die or
fall into some sort of like modern
dystopian poverty forever and ever. Why
is that rhetoric still out there if at a
local level everyone kind of agrees like
you know this is bad for electricity
prices it's potentially bad for the
labor market? Yeah, I great question and
I think actually that might be the
politicians not really getting to the
heart of the issue and we have to
separate the AI technology and the
promises that were originally there
which we could probably strategically
agree like we need to maintain
technological advancement and then the
current way that it's structured where
it's basically in the hands of three or
four like super CEOs and everything's
kind of seems rolled up fundamentally
that you guys are know going a lot more
than I do but because of the cost of
compute of data centers specifically
like the big tech companies are the ones
that are in control. So I think we
should disagregate like the idea of AI
itself as a technology potential open
source and its usefulness from the way
that it's actually being structured,
used and controlled. And I think that's
really where a lot of the push back is
and also though I would say you know
politicians this may seem
counterintuitive but are often the last
people to know whenever something
organically is pushing up. You know I'm
I guess on the forefront of a of a
YouTube show. I mean in ways like I have
real-time analytics daytoday about how
people are feeling. You only get a
Democratic kind of feel about this once
every 2 to four years. So it can take a
long time for this to bubble up through
the halls of Washington and kind of get
rid of some of the 2018 2019 you know
more think tank talking points that I
think that you're describing there.
Tracy David Saxs the co-host of the
All-In podcast and the White House's AI
and cryptosar. He says all the
negativity is because of effective
altruists and the sort of movement in
San Francisco that's pushing these doom
scenarios. Are all these people that you
follow and talk to or that follow you
are they all like reading EA substacks?
Is that where they're getting insight
from?
>> They have no idea what EA even is. I've
actually had to do a few explainers on
the show about effective altruism, you
know. And again, the vast majority of my
audience, I mean, these are, you know,
Uber drivers and hotel, these are just
normal people who are kind of like going
about their day-to-day life. David is
absolutely wrong on this issue. I mean,
he may be structurally correct in terms
of the way that the rhetoric around AI
that causes Adario and Elon and others
to like go on shows and talk
specifically about how you're not going
to work, but you're going to be okay and
this whole idea that kind of backs stops
EA. But this is really just like small d
democratic like push back. I really
think and I also think an idea I've
really been rolling around in my head.
I'm curious for what you guys think is
that at the heart of the social media
revolution were some newer upstarts. You
know, we'd never heard of Mark
Zuckerberg. We'd never heard of, you
know, even if we push back to Google's,
you know, these guys were revolutionary
entrepreneurs. This time around, you
know, they sold us the promise of social
media. And regardless of whether you
think it's good or not, we don't really
have a high level of societal trust in,
you know, the Arab Spring and all that.
And these are the very same people now
making these multibillion dollar in some
cases trillion dollar bets on AI and
telling us to trust them. So that's
something that really belies it. You
know, the Mark Zuckerbergs of the AI
space, let's I don't know, Alexander
Wang, like he now works for Mark
Zuckerberg, right? It's just a it's just
fundamentally like a little bit
different in terms of who the key
players are who are trying to tell us
about the beneficiary of the technology.
And I also think, you know, they're no
longer talking about the things that
they originally did. Like they were
like, "We're going to cure cancer." And
it's like, "Well, Sam, why are you
talking about erotica porn, man?"
Because that's that's a little bit
different. It's like maybe the internet
and chat GPT is just going to be the
exact same as the internet as it always
has been, which is basically increasing,
you know, user time and chat GPT,
putting some ads in there, just an
emiserating experience, which of course
also has high levels of efficiency for
business use.
>> I was going to say exactly that. I'm not
sure it's that people don't trust the
promise. It's that the promise itself
doesn't seem that enticing at the
moment. you know, you're going to lose
your job and AI is going to get to do
all the fun stuff in human life like
make pictures and movies
>> and your children are going to get
married to an AI model, so you're not
even
>> Exactly. Yeah, you're exactly right. I
mean, I thought the erotica thing from
Sam was just the biggest tell. I was
like, "Wow, man." Like, we're not
talking about biomedical. We're not
talking about chat GPT curing cancer and
all of this. I mean, to be fair to him,
he has talked about the Open Eye
Foundation, how they're going to try and
move things in that direction, but all
of the public consumption and everything
being, you know, geared. I don't know if
either of you are NFL fans. Have you
noticed the number of chat GPT ads
during NFL games now?
>> Oh, it's every game. And it's like here,
Chat GPT is designing my workout.
ChatGpt is designing my vacation.
Listen, no hate, but it's basically an
Expedia ad, right? This is not cancer
curing. It's Instagram for teens. It's
ChatGpt. Microsoft Copilot, I believe,
ran an ad about image generation. You
know, the studio Ghibli thing. I mean,
that's that's not enterprise
groundbreaking technology. Like, this is
like you're burning data center or like
you're increasing my power bills so that
people can do Studio Ghibli recreates
like I'm out on this, you know. You know
that that's how I feel.
>> So, there are obviously a number of
different concerns that people have,
electricity, prices, labor, and we'll
get into that. But you said something
interesting which is that even you know
prior to AI having come out prior to
late 2022 when Chad GBT burst on the
scene people were already souring on
these big tech moguls you know on the
right specifically but also but really
across you know there's concern about
the algorithm what's it doing shadow
banning are cert are certain things
being labeled as fake news that aren't
fake news you know there was all the
backlash against YouTube for what videos
they allowed during the pandemic etc. It
feels like just intuitively
there is no reason that all of these
concerns don't quickly map onto very
cleanly onto AI concerns.
>> You're exactly right. I mean, it already
has, right? And in some of the early
cases, you guys, we've all been around.
We remember the early content about
Facebook moderation. Remember all of
that? I mean, look at what's happening
with chat GPT. story after story about
these suicides and now erotica and you
know they're saying the same level of
stuff that Facebook used to say like oh
we have you know controls in place and
look I mean at some level I do
sympathize like when a billion people
use your product you know 1% of them
might be crazy and that's a actually a
really really tough problem but also you
know when your technology is being
implicated in all of these insane
lawsuits and you have screenshots and
stuff that come out that make people go
whoa I don't even know if I want my 19
or 20-year-old like anywhere close to
this that really because of the way that
we all lived through those past
conversations, Joe, they track exactly
onto Sam Alman and Mark Zuckerberg. I
mean, look at the stuff he's had to deal
with with the meta AI Instagram chat
bots, you know, for teenagers. And it's
funny because they're trying to get
ahead of it to to the NFL thing. I watch
these ads closely. Like one of the big
ads right now, ad campaigns, is
Instagram for teens, which they're like,
"We have safety stuff, you know, like
that." that's kind of baked in and
they're trying to get ahead of it
because you know you don't run that ad
if you don't have the anxious generation
as one of the top bestselling books in
the United States like it's an upper
middle class like revolution now about
people who are like against iPad kits
right and I think that's going to track
very very cleanly onto AI there's no
reason that it shouldn't
>> [music]
>> How would you describe the relationship
between, you know, the people running
some of the biggest tech companies now
versus years past? cuz I remember, you
know, we're talking a little bit about
some of the scandals and discussions
about political influence and what is
actually shown on Facebook and I get the
sense that once upon a time in DC,
people did kind of feel like big tech
was in control, right? It was DC coming
to big tech for help. And now I'm
thinking back to the inauguration when
we had, you know, people like Bezos and
I think Zuckerberg was there as well.
Yes, he was.
>> And there sort of, you know, I I don't
know how I saw one person, I'm not going
to describe it this way myself, but I
did see one person describe it as a
hostage situation where [laughter] the
the big tech CEOs, you know, they're all
gathered in front of Trump and they seem
kind of scared.
>> They're smiling, but
>> they're smiling, but not with their
eyes. How would you describe the
relationship now between the
administration and, you know, the big
wigs of big tech? Yeah, that's a great
question because you know what I'm
talking about is small D democratic
politics. Now you're asking about power
politics. Power politics here is very
different. I mean you know David Sachs
has navigated his position incredibly
well. You know Joe, there was a funny
incident. I think I talked to you about
this where I found a snippet. I think it
was a Financial Times piece and it was
just about it was like AI accounts for
80% of stock gains and X% of GDP in
terms of capex and David Saxs like
retweeted it and I was like oh so you
think that's a good thing? You know, I
was like I was like, "Oh." I was like,
"Okay." But you know, that's actually if
you're in the Trump White House right
now, you need this. You know, you need
the rally. You need the GDP and the data
center spend because that's what's
propping up. Again, you're the economist
just from my listening to you and
reading Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg,
Financial Times, and others. Like that's
a main reason why Joe, you were like,
"Well, I don't think we're in a
recession." Derek Thompson has written
very eloquently about this as well is
just how much of that spend currently
accounts for why things seem okay. So
there is like a real alliance I think
right now between the Jensen Sens David
and even Sam Alman and others like they
all come to the White House and announce
their crazy deals for a reason. They get
these awesome press conferences from
Trump. I mean there's the famous moment
where Zuck what did he leans over to
Trump and he's like I didn't know how
much you wanted me to say. I'm like wow.
Okay. So you know you could I mean you
could describe that as at heel. You
could also say he's got to bend over and
kiss the ring while also being able to
basically just do whatever he wants. So
there is, I think, a very, you know,
alliance of convenience right now where
the amount of money they're pumping into
the economy, the amount of stock value
that they're creating is extremely
beneficial to the Scott Bessants and
others of the world. Talking about MAGA
economics.
>> Let's talk a little bit more about
electoral politics specifically. Ronda
Santis actually seems to be trying to
make a carve a lane for himself early on
even before the Sarah Frier comments
actually saying no bailouts for AI
companies like what do you see right now
in terms of candidate positioning. Yeah,
that's it's all very early signaling and
that's actually you know I love this
because usually one of the things I hate
most about politics recently it's all
top down. You have guys who are running
for city council talking about
impeachment or something. It's like,
dude, what? Tell me about the roads, you
know? But actually, this one is really
bottom up. You know, the data center
stuff, it's Tucson. Actually, here in
Northern Virginia where I live, there
was a big comment and there's a lot of
public controversy about data centers.
My state, Virginia, 40% of our power is
consumed actually by data centers.
Oregon is like 33% I believe of power.
There's been a lot of local stuff and it
hasn't really bubbled to the national
level. And I would say people here, they
care about money, but they also care
about electability. So, there's an ocean
of money to be had if you're quote pro
AI or pro tech, but they'll always
choose their own careers when and if,
you know, it does come down to that. I
haven't seen it bubble up yet. I did
see, I'm not sure if you guys did, that
Bernie Sanders and a few of other
progressives signed a letter against
data centers specifically, and that was
the first indication that I'm like, ah,
the staffers, they're paying attention,
right? They're listening to the pods.
They're reading David Wiggle's piece
about data center politics and they're
trying to operationalize that into
something at the national level. You're
exactly right in terms of Ronda Santis
tried to pick that lane about bailout
and that actually gets to something very
recently where you talked about Sarah's
comments. I mean, we did a segment about
that and it was huge about the open AI
bailout because people can feel it.
They're like, I've seen this movie
before. They're, you know, you know,
yeah, they make 20 billion, but they've
got 75 billion in projected losses to
2028. They've got a trillion dollar in
committed spend. You know, the p the PE
ratios and all this are so crazy. And if
it doesn't work out, they're going to
say, "Oh, well, we need you to bail us
out or we need you to build the data
centers for us and take all the most
expensive part of our business out."
They are inherently distrustful already
of the numbers. And I think this is very
American like you don't want to be
controlled. And the AI people tell us
about how this is a second industrial
revolution. And it's like well you know
then we should probably look to the
politics of the previous industrial
revolutions. You know the railroad
obviously like had tremendous benefit.
It doesn't take a week or it took a week
to go to California instead of 3 months.
That's awesome. But, you know, very
quickly in the 1880s and 1890s, titanic,
you know, uprisings in the Midwest of
farmers feeling like they're being
controlled and anti- railroad
politicians were some of the original
like anti-industrial populists in
Washington, even though originally
everybody was really sold at the idea
politicians.
>> Oh, yeah. Yeah, there definitely were.
Uh, there were all throughout the 1890s,
some of the original populist party, if
you go and you look at what that all
was, a lot of it was about the railroad.
And you know, I mean, there's legendary
stories. Texas, where you and I are
from, Joe. White Patman, I I'd have to
right back. Yeah. There were other like
people like Sam Rayburn actually
famously was very anti- railroad. He
wouldn't take the free railroad passes.
These were like big big stories all the
way up until the 1920s. And so, and so I
see a very similar kind of track, except
though that I'm not so sure that the
socialized benefits will be as good as
the railroad because the railroad at the
end of the day, it was awesome. I could
go to California in a week. I don't have
to take the stage coach or the Oregon
Trail or whatever. This time around, I'm
like, listen, I don't know if you guys
have used Sora. Sorry. Like, it's not
worth the power bills. It's not It's not
worth it.
>> Tracy's insisting that I correct that
I'm not really a real Texan. I only went
to college there.
>> He's a college.
>> Truly. Anyway.
>> Okay. All right.
>> This is important to me as someone with
a dad who was raised in Dallas and
Lancaster. I
>> know. Anyway, I was just thinking, you
know, we were talking about populism in
the 1800s and did you ever see the
interpretations of the Wizard of Oz as
like
>> Yeah. something about the silver.
>> Yeah. It was farmers who like wanted to
move to silverbacked currency and a lot
of it supposedly was tied to populism.
Anyway, I wanted to go back to power
politics for one second and ask what the
heck JD Vance is going to do here
because it's not impossible that he is
the chosen successor to Trump in
whatever time frame
>> and in that case he's sort of stuck
between I guess two P's here, populism
and Peter Teal.
>> Yeah. Well, you know, so it's it's a lot
more peas than that actually because
it's [laughter] populism, it's Trump,
it's teal. I mean, you know, the teal
thing, I've always thought it was
frankly a little bit overstated in terms
of influence. But regardless, I would
say more like teal sphere or teal
thought, if that makes sense. Like as
you guys know, probably most of the
people listening to this, like there's
an entire like ecosystem around like
zero, you know, zero to one posting and
all of that within tech. Anyway, so that
sphere, let's call it right techch, I
guess, you know, to be extremely
reductive. That sphere is really the one
which currently embodies, you know,
really a lot of this more pro- AI
direction. Let's say Palanteer, Alex
Karp, and others. But even he is
fascinating, right? Because he's pro
AAI, but only for Palanteer and he
thinks that the rest [laughter] suck. So
like these things do break down. But JD,
I mean, look, he's going to be in a
tough position as well because he also,
it's not exactly like he can repudiate
the Trump administration. I actually
think it's one of his biggest weaknesses
going into 2028. I mean, you guys will
remember they savaged Kamla for the what
would you do different conversation from
Biden? I mean, how do you answer that
when Donald Trump is still alive and you
[laughter] have to run? You know, you're
going to get destroyed if you say the
truth. And I mean, look, I don't know
where things are going to end up. Trump
is basically trending in Biden territory
right now in terms of his approval
ratings. And so, look, you know, we saw
that movie. And in my opinion, when you
start chart posting about how the
economy is actually good, you're cooked
uh you know to borrow a phrase from the
youth about politics. But yeah, you're
the power politics of it are really I
think trepidacious I think for a lot of
the right because they don't want to get
away from Elon and from his money,
right? Elon is very very powerful center
I think in Republican politics. XAI,
he's got this huge new data center
project. I'm sure you guys have read or
seen something about that. he's probably
going to demand, you know, certain
things. And at the same time, you're I
mean, a huge amount of the right-wing
commentariat who would probably be more
JD Vance ideologically positioned, let's
say, like the Matt Walshes of the world,
the Tucker Carlson's of the world, these
people are straight up on record as this
is, you know, demonic. We need to stand
for humanity. And it's going to be very
tough. I actually think it might be the
single toughest position that you'll
have to navigate in the campaign. And I
think that the left, the political left
in particular, they are looking at this
data center stuff. They are all over it.
More perfect union, which is one of
those, it's like a Bernie aligned
institution. They have been all over
this issue. So, I'm watching the
populist left really, really grab on to
it. And I think a democratic position in
2028 is going to come down hard in terms
of either regulation or protecting
Americans, you know, reforming power,
however it's going to be. They're they
are going to be there and the right is
going to have a very tough time. It's
interesting because like even 10 years
ago, we thought of Silicon Valley as
like basically being democratic aligned,
right? Like most big tech executives and
I still think, you know, most people in
San Francisco obviously vote Democrat,
including a lot of high people at these
tech companies, but there's this
well-known shift that everyone talks
about and they've got much more
comfortable. But it feels like to me
they could, you know, they've move
they've switched sides to some extent.
Like they could kind of end up
friendless in all this.
>> Yeah. Oh, I mean I I already I I think
that they massively overplayed their
hand with Doge and I mean, you know,
it's look, I mean, if we're being
honest, just look at the stats. Like,
it's a total failure in terms of its
stated project. You could debate whether
USAD or whatever is bad. I mean,
Treasury data is public, guys. You can
go read it for yourself in terms of
spending. So, that's one thing. But two,
you're exactly right, Joe, in terms of
the fair weather friend nature of all of
this is that, you know, a in terms of
the way that a lot of the Democratic
base has been radicalized at this point,
they're never going back. And then in
the right-wing coalition, you know, I
don't want to go too deep in the weeds
here, but like
>> I actually kind of want you to go deep.
I kind of want you to go deep in the
>> Yeah. I mean, the tech the tech right,
let's take this H-1B thing for example.
This is like a huge huge split right now
in the political right because a lot of
these tech guys are very pro H-1B. You
know, Elon famously said he would fight
to the death over the issue of H1B. This
was during the whole fight, you know, in
December before Trump took office. And
Trump ultimately, he just did an
interview a few days ago where he
embraced H-1B, say actually we need more
talent. But there's a lot of the
activist political right, which is very
against that, and increasingly are
blaming a lot of these techright
politicians for hijacking the
administration. So that's why, you know,
for them, I would be very careful as to
how exactly, you know, they're going to
navigate. There's also, I mean, this
breaks on foreign policy lines as well
because a subset of the tech right is
also very pro-Israel, which is also a
very divisive issue. I don't want to
drag that into this but only to say like
Joe Lawndale Shawn Maguire these are you
know very very rich people very
activated in the current you know cohort
of MAGA but not exactly like beloved
let's say amongst a different segment
you know of the American right and so I
could see a huge clash coming to the
front with that and that's another issue
I would say you know for a JD Vance is
like I'm sure he's friendly with them
and that's easy when Trump is papering
over all these coalitional politics but
that's going going to break out into the
open like nobody's business in a
primary. And I could see it I could see
them becoming friendless quickly because
again I mean look I could be wrong. I
don't think that that's where the base
is. I really don't. Just because if we
look at the at the math of who are the
people increasingly identifying as MAGA
or Republican like people making less
than $100,000 a year are not going to be
cheering on, you know,
multi-billionaires telling them that
they don't have to work that they're not
going to work anymore. Not that they
don't have to work anymore. They're not
going to work anymore. More bluecollar
types. I mean, you know, the driverless,
you know, the driverless trucks issue
like the Teamsters president. I had him
on my show just going hard. Sean O'Brien
famously the only union president to not
endorse in the election. Much more Trump
friendly. So, that part of the coalition
is going to have something to say, I
think.
>> Yeah. I feel like we saw some of the
sensitivity burst into the open with the
H-1B visa comments when Trump was like,
"We don't have enough talent in
America." I mean Twitter/X just
exploded.
>> I was going to take all the jobs and the
jobs [laughter] that will be left were
also going to
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Whatever jobs
are left, they'll be in India. So you're
like, I don't know about that. Right.
>> Okay. So I feel like I know the answer
to this question, but if a lot of people
are going to be unable to work, is there
anyone in DC or elsewhere who is talking
about universal basic income?
>> Uh Andrew Yang. I just had him on my
show. He's doing he's doing the biggest
victory lap over all of this. You know,
I have not seen it. I know even Bernie
famously I think is against UBI. I have
to go back and check. He's more of a
federal jobs guarantee guy and that's
the most most out there. Like I said, I
mean to be honest covering politics now,
I've only watched them play catch-up. I
mean famously, I've talked with Jack
Dorsey and others about this, but like
those famous hearings where they'd be
like, "So, how does Facebook, you know,
make money?" and you're like, "Oh my
god, man." You know, in front of these
hearings when the congressmen, you know,
don't even know the most basic facets or
they'll be asking stuff like, "Why do my
campaign emails get stuck in Gmail's
filters?" Like, these are real questions
that are asked in by the United States
Senate and the Congress. So, I don't
have a lot of faith that there are a lot
of very forwardfacing
thinkers around this issue and in
particular, I mean, I know that to be
the case. It could change in 2026. I
think a de dem, you know, tea party type
wave is coming. There might be some
interesting candidates that start to say
things like that and maybe on the
Republican side as well. I'd like to see
it.
[music]
We've been talking a lot about the
right, the Republicans. I actually
really like a lot these guys, but when I
think about the other side of the aisle
and I think about some of these
tensions, you mentioned more perfect
union and some of these more, you know,
kind of populist left things, I'm not
very bullish on um the abundance dems
right now and how that sort of faction
that would like to sort of take the
party in a sort of more, you know, I
guess they I don't know if centrist
centrist moderate liberal realm, etc.
Yeah, whatever it is. I don't know how
you feel. Give us your sort of uh your
view on the other side of the aisle.
>> Definitely. I mean the interesting thing
about the whole abundance thing and all
of that is I think you know what it
misses is the theory of control and you
know it's like more housing awesome you
know but it doesn't get to ownership I
guess and the feeling of like the
ability to control your own destiny
which I think is really baked into the
American spirit and the American
project. And you know, you see stuff
like this about debates around housing
and you know, they'll kind of ridicule
this idea about corporate ownership and
you know, I'm not going to get into the
weeds about whether that's even true or
not. I know there's a lot of
controversy, but the idea is definitely
very popular, right? You know, for a lot
of people and the reason why is
fundamentally they're like, I'm being
priced out of my ability to buy a home.
Like it really what it is about is
about, you know, the individuality of
reclaiming your own destiny. And that's
why that's why those two things are very
linked. You know, it's about power, you
know, and to kind of bring back to
Tracy's question earlier about, you
know, beating China, etc. It's the
technology is not the same as the
companies that are in charge. And when
you see these swelling valuations and
talks of bailouts and the encroachment
into your daily life or your office and
you see headlines about firing workers,
you know, on the promise of AI, none of
this goes to the heart about democratic
input. You know, I was thinking about
that in terms of the chatbt suicide
question, which I know is fringe from
their point of view, but I think it's
important if billions of people are
going to use your technology. And Sam
famously in a Tucker Carlson interview
was like, "Well, in a country where
assisted suicide is legal, like would
you direct people to those resources?"
He effectively said, "Yes." And I was
like, "Oh my god." I mean, then, you
know, ChachiPT's mental health
standards, in my opinion, like there
needs to be some like there needs to be
stuff hashed out in the US Congress and
at the state and the local level where
like we all agree on what so-called
guard rails and acceptable norms are.
And I can't just be leaving it to Sam
Alman. Sorry. I think you know, no
offense to that guy. It's not even about
him. It's about everybody. Nobody, no
one person should have that immense
amount of power, which is going to
affect millions and millions of people.
>> Yeah. And it just seems incredibly
difficult to have any democratic input
into what are effectively black boxes,
right? And have have always been black
boxes. I have a very basic question, but
is anyone in DC using AI in an
interesting way? Um I I imagine you know
people are probably editing policy
papers or whatever with it and doing
some research but like is anyone I don't
know
>> creating lots of AIdriven bots to sway
conversations or I don't know come up
with some new system of campaign finance
who knows
>> I'm not privy to any of the secret stuff
like you I mean that kind of that kind
of
>> either just to be clear
>> I I mean it kind of begs the question is
is anything interesting being done with
AI right you know what you just said of
editing papers everybody's editing
papers. Great, you know, awesome. A
friend of mine, John Kugan, I'm sure you
guys know him. I think he John had a
great analogy to AI, he was like, I kind
of think it'll be like the credit card,
you know, like frictionless payments. It
enabled an entire new ecosystem. We can
build wealth and it'll make your life
like a little bit better, you know, and
all that. I think that's basically the
technology, right? You know,
summarizing, editing, it's a better
Google, that's cool, and all that, but I
haven't yet seen like some mass
sophisticated thing. I mean, to be
honest, you know, most people in DC are
probably using AI for editing purposes,
research, to check things. What else? I
mean, image generation to slander your
political opponents. That's a pretty big
one. We use it for thumbnails for our
YouTube videos, you know, like I guess
that's cool, you know. I mean, yeah,
it's nice. It's definitely nice. It's
not that I don't have I also have
Photoshop guys who work for me, so, you
know, they use it a little bit every
once in a while, but I haven't seen
anything truly novel. I really have it.
>> You know, in terms of elected officials
who maybe a few years ago, this would
have been a surprise, but who seem to
have an very good intuitions about
things. Marjgery Taylor Green, one of
these names who's like, "Oh, I'm like,
she seems savvy in a way that maybe
people wouldn't have guessed." Has she
been talking about AI at all?
>> I I you know, I haven't looked
definitely. I haven't seen anything in
particular. I I can almost guess where
she would land though, especially look
her own home state is now ground zero
for a statewide referendum against
>> talk to us about that. We haven't
actually tell us we haven't this Georgia
election. I know it was like kind of
power and power is in electricity stuff
was kind of directly on the ballot,
right?
>> Yeah. Two races literally about power.
Both made Democratic candidates. They
made data centers, power usage like a
central part of their campaign and they
won a huge victory. I don't want to
ascribe the entire thing, let's be
honest. in a national environment. A lot
of people for Democrats everywhere,
>> but it was it was an awesome night for
Democrats, right? But look, I mean, in a
certain way, like those arguments still
are really finding a lot of salience
because, you know, these stories about
power going up. And look, I mean,
everybody remembers, you know, the
Walmartization conversation, the Amazon
warehouse conversation. Nobody loves
this idea of these big companies coming
in, buying land, using a ton of
resources, driving prices up. Nobody
buys the BS anymore about how this is
going to create a ton of jobs. I mean,
definitely some construction jobs, but
nobody's really under the illusion.
Everybody knows tech is a power law
business. You know, the vast majority of
the wealth is going to flow up to the
top of the CEO and the net worths of
Zuck and Elon and the rest of these
people. So, that's where the politics of
this really matter. And you know, heat
mapap, I've shouted them out. They wrote
a great piece about the data center
backlash is swallowing American
politics. And you should go read it.
Just even look at polling, not just
about Georgia. I mean, this is
bipartisan at every level. And younger
generations are the most anti-data
center, anti- AI kind of politics. And
and I mean, look, they're suffering. I
mean, they have a high unemployment rate
right now. A lot of them either blame AI
or look at AI as one of the reasons why
they're having a tough time in the labor
market. And you know it doesn't help
whenever you see Wall Street Journal
articles just about white collar
companies increasingly bet on more
productivity out of existing workforce
like this stuff confirm it both confirms
biases and it's real so it's not even
particularly a bias.
>> What is the state of antitrust at the
moment? Because I remember at the
beginning of this year it seemed like it
was emerging as a possibly bipartisan
issue or at least a direct link between
the Biden administration and the Trump
administration. Everyone wanted to go
after the big tech companies possibly
for different reasons but you know the
outcome's the same. Is that still a live
issue in DC?
>> Yeah. I mean uh look speaking quite
candidly like the state of the
government is like large portions of it
for sale and for
>> [laughter]
>> uh you know large portions of it are
basically you know they it are very
beholden to financial interest. I'll put
that very politely, shall I? At least
about who can get to Trump's ear, who
can get and have some influence with the
administration. I don't want to poo poo
it entirely, you know, when big money or
a donor or something like that is not
involved. The FTC has done some good
work and has been looking to try and
confirm, but they've also quite
honestly, you know, moved past some of
the antirust cases and others that Lena
Khan put forward. So, I would say it's
mixed. I mean, I think that the look,
this stuff is happening out in the open,
so I don't even know why I'm afraid of
saying it. Like, he convenes the tech
CEOs and they are like, "How much money
do you want me to announce?" And they'll
just do it. You know, I mean, that
pretty much is the whole ball game. And
I think that gets to the kind of power
alliance I talked about earlier like the
Trump administration really needs these
companies for headlines and because
they're propping up the economy in their
stock market. So, so this is exactly
where I wanted to ask you about next,
which is if there's one tension here,
which is
>> the stock market itself has sort of
become a populist issue, right? This
seems very strange to talk about the
stock market and populism in the same
sentence, but you see all of the
different people, you know, who will
randomly pull up on their phone various
stock positions.
>> Well, Trump himself also benchmarks
himself
>> and Trump talks about the stock market.
So, you know, this whole thing is like,
oh, it's, you know, it's Main Street's
turn, etc. But a lot of young people,
people who are middle class or lower
middle class feel either direct, they're
either very directly in the stock market
or they feel like they have some very
interest. How does that intersect with
this? What do you see like among like
the commenters on your show in terms of
like how they think about, you know,
just the sort of
>> betting and everything and investing and
trading, all that stuff?
>> That's a great question. I mean, I don't
know. There's like a couple of different
angles to it, right? because the Trump
people ridiculed Biden for saying the
economy was good. But now they're doing
the exact same thing. You guys know the
S&P did pretty well under Biden, right?
Let's be honest. Start benchmark from
the day he took office to the day off. I
forget the exact number. It's like 60
80%. Like these are decent returns uh
over the 4-year period. But it's not
like anybody at home was like, "Oh, the
economy is so much better." But of
course, politicians do that, you know,
whenever they come into office. But Joe,
I mean, you're not wrong. And I guess
this is a much more meta conversation
where I mean you and you and I have
talked about this privately. The numbers
got to go up, right? Because all of our
futures are in the number like we don't
have pensions in this country. We don't
have a robust social safety net until we
turn 65. So in the interim gets
>> really robust.
>> Yeah. And then then it gets very robust
and that's a separate combo. But yeah, I
mean in the interim like you know your
hopes of retirement, your hopes of of
buying something or asset appreciation
like that's all we got. And I think that
the increasing financialization hope is
exactly behind crypto sports betting
issue I'm very passionately against.
This is exactly why is I think you know
it removed a lot of the hope kind of
undergirling the stability of the
American foundation and within that
speculation and fast riches and plus I
mean the tech is so good. I mean have
you guys placed trades on Robin Hood you
know with the confetti and everything?
You got to go do it. You know you got to
feel it. put a little bit put a position
behind it and you'll see
>> buy some spy on
>> Exa. Exactly. That's the responsible
thing to do. Go put a couple hundred in
the spy and uh but you'll just see
>> the little like celebratory
>> Oh yeah.
>> animations when you place a trade.
>> It It's happened to me recently whenever
whenever I did one. So congrats on Yeah.
Exactly. But I mean, I can see how, you
know, addictive that this can all be.
And they they send you a million push
notifications a day. You know, the
opposite of what a good investor should
do and be like, "Oh, stock is down 5%,
stock is up 2%." You know, they want you
clicking and staying in the app and the
charts, everything is designed for you
to kind of be in there. So, these are
big tech companies which they make a lot
of money doing this stuff. And you can
see why society, structurally, and
technologically why that this became
kind of like a democratic issue.
>> By the way, while we're recording this,
just breaking the breaking news from uh
Bloomberg Thinking Machines Lab, an
artificial intelligence startup founded
by former OpenAI executive Mirror
Morati. Early talks to raise a new round
of funding, a roughly $50 billion
valuation. So,
>> every time we record an episode about
AI, a headline comes out while we're
recording.
>> Yeah. that helps us benchmark where we
are.
>> That is so crazy. It's so Didn't core we
There was something I saw recently.
>> Every day every day.
>> There was one yesterday and a new
hundred billion
>> anthropic investing $50 million into new
data center every day.
>> Exactly. It's just I mean I don't know.
I I really I'm I that's why I love your
show. Thank you. just thinking about,
you know, I've been doing a lot of John
Cassidy.com
reading, you know, back from 2000 and
vendor finance and just thinking really
deeply about it because I do think, you
know, event look, you know, I don't
know, today, tomorrow, a few years, who
knows, you know, where exactly it comes,
but some sort of downturn is probably
inevitable and the political
ramifications of that are just so
immense. You guys know with a downturn
in the stock market, interest rates,
reduction in workforce, I'm really
afraid.
>> Yeah, this is the thing which is that
there's already this backlash and the
stock market is near record highs and
unemployment is near 50-year lows or
whatever. So, we haven't actually seen
any of like really bad stuff. Sager and
Jetty, thank you so much for coming on
OddLotss. That was a lot of fun.
>> Thank you guys for having me. I love it.
>> [music]
>> Tracy, I thought that was a lot of fun.
You know, this idea that like there's
already this backlash that's brewing and
we actually don't have widespread
unemployment yet. We haven't had a stock
market crash yet or anything like that.
You know, 3 years is a long time. We
have no idea what the economy is going
to look like in 2028 or really even
2026. But if there's so much negativity
already building, right,
>> that sort of tells you tells you a lot,
>> right? If people are angry with the S&P
at like 6,700,
how are they going to feel
>> it's like below 6,000?
>> Yeah. I mean, I think everyone has
agreed at this point that this is going
to become a political issue, right? And
the only question is how big and then
what the response actually is to it. The
other thing I'm thinking is because
relationships both within the government
and between the government and private
entities seems so I'm just going to say
complicated and fluid at the moment. It
seems really hard to guess like which
direction this is going to go in.
>> Totally. It seems really hard to guess.
I thought your question about is anyone
talk about UBI in DC is really
interesting. It's grim like how there
seems to be almost no truly
forwardthinking politics. I mean,
really, this conversation should have
been happening throughout the 2024
election, right? Like, this was like
obviously going to be a massive thing
and the stakes would be incredibly high.
It was virtually non-existent. That was
just a year ago. So, I think that really
tells you something. And the fact that
by and large, you know, there's a couple
people tweeting about it here and there,
like maybe Ronda Santis, but by and
large, this still doesn't seem to be
something that any elected official like
wants to sort of carve their lane out,
you know?
>> Yeah. And it's probably not until
unemployment actually picks up that
you're going to see like people actually
start to talk about some possible
solutions. But again,
>> it's hard to see what those are
>> or just like Yeah. thinking in advance
about any of this stuff. Yeah.
>> All right. Shall we leave it there?
>> Sure. Let's leave it there.
>> This has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our guest
Sager and Jetty. He's at eager. Follow
our producers Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen
Arman. Dashel Bennett at Dashbot and
Kellbrooks at Kellbrooks. [music] For
more OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots
where the daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
[music]
discord.gg/odlots.
>> And if you enjoy OddLotss, if you like
it when we talk about the political
ramifications of AI, then please leave
us a positive review on your favorite
podcast platform. And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg [music]
subscriber, you can listen to all of our
episodes absolutely adree. All you need
to do [music] is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening. [music]
[music]
>> [singing]